[OPIK-1084]: describe a way to run the FE locally; (#1367)
comet-ml/opik: CONTRIBUTING.md

The Opik frontend is a React application that is located in `apps/opik-frontend`.

If you want to run the front-end locally and see your changes instantly on saving files, follow this guide:

#### Prerequisites

1. Ensure you have **Node.js** installed.

#### Steps

#### 1. Configure the Environment Variables

- Navigate to `apps/opik-frontend/.env.development` and update it with the following values:

  ```ini
  VITE_BASE_URL=/
  VITE_BASE_API_URL=http://localhost:8080

>   ```

Reviewer: I'd recommend going to a way without changing the current files to avoid possible commits to files we don't want changes

In this case I think we can already change the actual `.env.development` to this value, right? I don't think the current `/api` value is valid anymore

In case for some reason it's needed, I'd recommend the creation of a new file `.env.development.local` for this local FE contribution instead

#### 2. Enable CORS in the Back-End

- Open `deployment/docker-compose/docker-compose.yaml` and in the `services.backend.environment` section,
  add `CORS: true` to allow cross-origin requests.

  It should look like this:

  ```yaml
  ...
  OPIK_USAGE_REPORT_ENABLED: ${OPIK_USAGE_REPORT_ENABLED:-true}
  CORS: true
  ...
  ```

#### 3. Start the Services

- Run the following command to start the necessary services and expose the required ports:

  ```bash
  docker compose -f docker-compose.yaml -f docker-compose.override.yaml up -d

>   ```

Reviewer: Same here, I'd simplify the overrides to avoid changing files that it could be accidentally committed / pushed

I'd just create a new override file `docker-compose-fe-development.yaml` and add the CORS override there (and adding it to the docker compose command)

- Wait for the images to build and containers to start.
- To confirm that the back-end is running, open the following URL in your browser:

  ```
  http://localhost:8080/is-alive/ver
  ```

    - If you see a version number displayed, the back-end is running successfully.

#### 5. Install Front-End Dependencies

- Navigate to the front-end project directory:

  ```bash
  cd opik/apps/opik-frontend
  ```

- Install the necessary dependencies:

  ```bash
  npm install
  ```

#### 6. Start the Front-End

- Run the following command to start the front-end:

  ```bash
  npm run start
  ```

- Once the script completes, open your browser and go to:

  ```
  http://localhost:5174/
  ```

  You should see the app running! 🎉

### Notes:

- Another built front-end version will be available at `http://localhost:5173/`.  
  This version is used for checking builds, but you can also use it for the same purposes if needed.

- Before submitting a PR, please ensure that your code passes the test suite, the linter and the type checker:

  ```bash
  cd apps/opik-frontend
  
  npm run e2e
  npm run lint
  npm run typecheck
  ```

### Contributing to the backend

> In order to run the external services (Clickhouse, MySQL, Redis), you can use the `build_and_run.sh` script

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In order to run the external services (Clickhouse, MySQL, Redis), you can use `docker-compose`
```

Reviewer 2: we dont have build_and_run.sh anymore

> or `docker-compose`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
